Welcome back Micro services architecture consist of a number of components.
instead of having one big monolith application.
We have a number of smaller micro services interacting with each other.
It is possible that a couple of my services might be down some some where in the entire architecture.
If any of these micro services are down then they can pull down the entire chain of micro services
that are invoking them or that are dependent on them.
And that's one of the risks of micro services architecture.
For example the currency calculation service depends on the currency exchange service and the currency
exchange service depends on the limits service.
For example in that case if the limit service is down then both these services also will not be available.
And that's not good situation to be in if one of the micro services goes down all the other micro
services also go down along with it your micro services have to be better than that.
And that's where fault tolerance of your micro services comes into picture.
One of the things that you should always consider when a micro service is being created is what if some
functionality does not work as expected.
Let's say the limits service depends on some of the service and that service is not available then can
limit service providers default graceful behavior the functionality might not be perfect but at least
the limits service does not go down it at least gives a good enough response back to the currency exchange
service so that it can go ahead and do the work it needs to do.
It would prevent the entire chain from going down.
Hystrix framework helps us to build fault tolerant micro services.
How do we do that.
Let's see that in this step we'll start with adding hystrix to our Pom dot xml.
You would go to the limit service and we would want to use hystrix so I would copy this and starter hystrix
if you'd want to use hystrix if you want to use hystrix it's hystrix.
Once you add the dependency on hystrix we have to go to the limits service application and enable it
as well.
So I would say at enable hystrix and imported in this would enable hystrix fault tolerant and all the
controllers and on all the controller methods that what we can do is we can add an annotation called at hystrix
command and you can specify what is the fallback method.
If this method throws an exception what is the fallback method.
You can specify this on all the services inside your application.
What we will do is to illustrate hystrix will create a new simple get method so I will call mapping and let's call this
let's call it fault tolerant example.
And I'll say this also returns limit configuration in retrieve configuration for now let's just throw
a runtime exception from here.
I'll say it through a new runtime exception.
here trying to replicate a scenario where one of these services throws an exception.
So just because some other service.
It depends on is not available or it's not able to connect to the database it's not able to connect.
Queue For some reason is throwing an exception.
What happens is if Now this service is down all the services which are dependent on this also go down
and to prevent that what we can do is we can add fault tolerance to this we can say at hystrix command
fallback methos equal to fall back for retrieve configuration let's organize the imports control space.
I will import the hystrix command in.
And now I can define this method as well.
Let's copy this and I would say fall back so the fallback method with the name that is present.
In here we are creating a method.
And over here I can return the default.
So if any exception.
I mean here I'm directly throwing an exception.
But in real world this would be a method which would be doing a lot of functionality if any chance
if by any chance this throws an exception this method would be called and over here I can return a default
limit configuration I can say OK I would want to hard code that if there are errors and we are not able
to retrieve the configuration by due to some reason we would return default of 9 in 1999.
So what would happen because this is at least there is some basic behavior which is offered in case of
an exception.
So by any chance if there is a lot of logic in here and one of this stuff which we depend on here is
not available we would always return graceful behavior bad we would not fail but we would return some
default configuration back.
Let's start this up.
We understand the limits service application.
You can see that when I hit the localhost 8080 fault tolerance example we get the fault tolerant behavior.
It returns the values which we have configured into hysterics method it returns maximum of 9 and minimum
of 9 9 9.
That's not really good.
So I have to change the maximum of 999 and minimum of nine but you get the whole thing right.
So it basically that if this has a lot of logic and because of any of this the reason this method is
an exception we're configuring a fallback method.
This fallback method is getting invoked and rewritten the values which are configured in here.
This is very useful especially in the micro services architectures because there's a ripple effect if
any of the micro services failed.
So if one micro service fails all the other micro services which are dependent on that start feeling
and there is a ripple effect because of that.
And we can prevent that by providing fault tolerance what we are doing here is if I'm not able to talk
to that application and retrieve the values and kind of providing a default behavior this would improve
the fault tolerance of our micro services.
until the next step bye bye.